According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ (HHS) [Healthy People 2030 initiative](https://health.gov/our-work/healthy-people-2030/about-healthy-people-2030/health-literacy-healthy-people), health literacy involves the information and services that people need to make well-informed health decisions. There many aspects of health literacy:

- **Personal health literacy** is the degree to which individuals have the ability to find, understand, and use information and services to inform health-related decisions and actions for themselves and others. Examples of personal health literacy include understanding prescription drug instructions, understanding doctor’s directions and consent forms, and the ability to navigate the complex healthcare system.

- **Organizational health literacy** is the degree to which organizations equitably enable individuals to find, understand, and use information and services to inform health-related decisions and actions for themselves and others. Examples of organizational health literacy include simplifying the process to schedule appointments, using the Teach-Back method to ensure patient comprehension, and providing communications in the appropriate language, reading level and format.

- **Digital health literacy,** as defined by the [World Health Organization](https://www.who.int/global-coordination-mechanism/working-groups/digital_hl.pdf), is the ability to seek, find, understand, and appraise health information from electronic sources and apply the knowledge gained to addressing or solving a health problem. Examples of digital health literacy include accessing your electronic health record, communicating electronically with your health care team, ability to discern reliable online health information, and using health and wellness apps.

- **Numeracy**, also known as quantitative literacy, refers to a set of mathematical and advanced problem-solving skills that are necessary to succeed in a society increasingly driven by data, as defined by the [National Association of Secondary School Principals](https://www.nassp.org/top-issues-in-education/position-statements/adolescent-numeracy/). Examples of Numeracy include understanding nutrition information, interpreting blood sugar readings, taking correct dosage of medication (ex. take one capsule twice a day), evaluating treatment benefits and risks, and understanding insurance costs and coverage.