
array(["Admission Date: [**2153-10-27**] Discharge Date: [**2153-11-14**]\n\nDate of Birth: [**2115-5-8**] Sex: M\n\nService: SURGERY\n\nAllergies:\nDemerol / Phenergan\n\nAttending:[**First Name3 (LF) 974**]\nChief Complaint:\nSplenic artery aneurysm.\n\nMajor Surgical or Invasive Procedure:\n[**10-27**] - Exploratory laparotomy, splenectomy with distal\npancreatectomy, retroperitoneal exploration and control of\narterial and venous bleeding and abdominal packing for damage\ncontrol surgery\n[**10-29**] - Exploratory laparotomy, removal of 20 laparotomy packs,\ncontrol of superficial bleeding and partial abdominal closure\n[**10-31**] - Abdominal washout and closure of open abdomen\n\nHistory of Present Illness:\nThis middle-aged Asian male presents unresponsive and intubated\nwith having been found down in his garage. He was brought to\n[**Hospital3 **] ED where they did a CT scan finding blood in his\nabdomen. He was brought up to [**Hospital1 1170**] and in shock, arriving with a blood pressure 60. With\naggressive resuscitation, we were able to get his blood pressure\nup in the 110-120 region. He had the CT scan with him. There\nwas no contrast in that scan as far as IV contrast and also the\nissue of his being found down was not clear. His abdomen at that\ntime was not terribly distended and he had a small amount of\nblood in his abdomen. Based on that, we felt it is probably\nnecessary that we make sure that he had not suffered\nintracranial hemorrhage since his INR, which had been reported\nback, was nearly 2 and so he was quickly taken to CT scan for a\nhead scan and a C-spine scan when he again became hypotensive.\nHe was, therefore, taken to the OR as a STAT transfer\n\nPast Medical History:\nPMH: diabetes, hepatitis B\nPSH: liver transplant for hepB ([**Hospital3 **] ~ 5 yrs ago)\n\nSocial History:\nMarried (wife [**Location (un) **].\nLives in [**Location 5110**] w/ wife and 2 children (5&2). Is a\nstay-at-home dad; wife is manicurist.\nCame from [**Country 3992**] 8 yrs ago. Has 2 siblings (brother & sister)\nhere.\nBuddhist\n\nFamily History:\nNC\n\nPertinent Results:\n[**2153-10-27**] 11:58PM GLUCOSE-422* UREA N-18 CREAT-1.3* SODIUM-144\nPOTASSIUM-6.0* CHLORIDE-109* TOTAL CO2-13* ANION GAP-28*\n[**2153-10-27**] 11:58PM CALCIUM-13.9* PHOSPHATE-6.8* MAGNESIUM-1.4*\n[**2153-10-27**] 11:58PM WBC-1.8* RBC-2.21* HGB-6.9* HCT-20.2* MCV-91\nMCH-31.4 MCHC-34.4 RDW-14.2\n[**2153-10-27**] 11:58PM PLT COUNT-99*\n[**2153-10-27**] 11:58PM PT-18.1* PTT-133.8* INR(PT)-1.7*\n[**2153-10-27**] 10:31PM TYPE-ART TEMP-34.4 O2-100 PO2-451* PCO2-32*\nPH-7.05* TOTAL CO2-9* BASE XS--21 AADO2-251 REQ O2-48\nINTUBATED-INTUBATED VENT-CONTROLLED\n[**2153-10-27**] 08:46PM ALT(SGPT)-19 AST(SGOT)-28 ALK PHOS-10* TOT\nBILI-0.3\n\n[**2153-10-29**] LIVER OR GALLBLADDER US\nIMPRESSION:\n1. Dilation of the common duct, measuring 9 mm.\n2. Patent vessels within the right lobe of the liver. The left\nlobe could\nnot be well evaluated due to patient positioning and overlying\nbandages.\n3. Right pleural effusion.\n\n\n\nBrief Hospital Course:\n[**10-27**] Transferred to [**Hospital1 18**] from [**Hospital3 **] w/ imaging c/w\nhemoperitoneum. The day prior to arrival, was complaining of\nstomach pain & later collapsed while helping friend work on his\ncar. At [**Hospital1 18**], found to be unresponsive, intubated, and\nhypotensive. Volume resuscitation was temporarily successful.\nTaken to OR as STAT transfer for ex-lap, splenectomy with distal\npancreatectomy & packing. Received 24 units PRBCs, 8 units FFP,\n1 unit cryoprecipitate intraopa and peri-op. Post-op,\nnecessitated pressor support including levophed and epinephrine.\nPatient was started on IV vancomycin, levofloxacin and flagyl.\n\n[**10-28**] Patient was kept intubated/sedated with IV resuscitation,\nventilator and vasopressor support. A plastic surgery\nconsultation was obtained for epidermolysis of the left hand\ndorsum. His arm was splinted below the elbow in extension with\nxeroform and dry gauze dressing to the wound.\n\n[**10-29**] Taken back to OR for exploratory laparotomy, removal of 20\nlaparotomy packs, control of superficial bleeding and partial\nabdominal closure. The patient began to develop acute renal\nfailure with a creatinine of 3.6 up from 1.6. His LFTs were also\nfound to be rising. A transplant hepatology consult was\nobtained. This rise was felt to be secondary to shock liver from\nhypoperfusion.\n\n[**10-30**] Continued to stabilize and resuscitate with IV fluids.\nPatient was weaned off pressors. His creatinine and LFTs were\nfollowed carefully. Adequate urine output.\n\n[**10-31**] Takeback to OR for abdominal washout and closure of open\nabdomen. Antibiotic regimen changed to vancomycin and zosyn.\n\n[**11-1**] Tube feeding started, sedation weaned\n\n[**11-2**] Vent weaned from CMV to CPAP. Antibiotics stopped.\n\n[**11-3**] Vent wean continued. Self-extubated with immediate\nre-intubation.\n\n[**11-5**] Tube feeds advanced to goal.\n\n[**11-6**] Extubated\n\n[**11-7**] Off all drips/O2/sedation. Drinking/eating ground diet\nwithout issue. [**Last Name (un) **] Biabetes center consulted for elevated\nsugars. He was started on an insulin regimen which required\nadjustment throughout his stay.\n\n[**11-8**] Transferred from TSICU to floor.\n\nOn [**11-10**] he developed fevers and was pan cultured and empirically\nstarted on Vanco and Zosyn. His blood and urine cultures grew\nE.coli resistant to Ampicillin, Cipro and Bactrim so Augmentin\nwas started; the Vanco and Zosyn were stopped.\n\n[**11-11**] He underwent abdominal imaging which revealed a perihepatic\nabscess which was subsequently drained by Interventional\nRadiology. Culture of the fluid was sent which had no growth,\nthe catheter continued to drain bile and was eventually removed\non day of discharge.\n\n[**11-12**] Fevers defervesced and patient doing well.\n\nHe was discharged to home on [**11-14**] with services. Specific\ninstructions for follow up were provided.\n\n\nMedications on Admission:\nFK [**1-6**], hepsera 10', lamivudine 100', RISS\n\nDischarge Medications:\n1. White Petrolatum-Mineral Oil 42.5-56.8 % Ointment Sig: One\n(1) Appl Ophthalmic PRN (as needed) as needed for dry eyes.\n2. Fentanyl 100 mcg/hr Patch 72 hr Sig: One (1) Patch 72 hr\nTransdermal Q72H (every 72 hours).\nDisp:*qs Patch 72 hr(s)* Refills:*0*\n3. Oxycodone 5 mg Tablet Sig: 1-2 Tablets PO Q4H (every 4 hours)\nas needed for breakthrough pain.\nDisp:*60 Tablet(s)* Refills:*0*\n4. Pantoprazole 40 mg Tablet, Delayed Release (E.C.) Sig: One\n(1) Tablet, Delayed Release (E.C.) PO Q24H (every 24 hours).\nDisp:*30 Tablet, Delayed Release (E.C.)(s)* Refills:*2*\n5. Tacrolimus 1 mg Capsule Sig: Two (2) Capsule PO BID (2 times\na day).\nDisp:*60 Capsule(s)* Refills:*2*\n6. Adefovir 10 mg Tablet Sig: One (1) Tablet PO qday ().\nDisp:*30 Tablet(s)* Refills:*2*\n7. Lamivudine 100 mg Tablet Sig: One (1) Tablet PO DAILY\n(Daily).\nDisp:*30 Tablet(s)* Refills:*2*\n8. Glargine insulin Sig: Twenty Five (25) Units at bedtime.\nDisp:*2 vials* Refills:*2*\n9. Silver Sulfadiazine 1 % Cream Sig: One (1) Appl Topical DAILY\n(Daily): Apply to left antecubital fossa daily as directed.\nDisp:*1 Jar* Refills:*2*\n10. Amoxicillin-Pot Clavulanate 500-125 mg Tablet Sig: One (1)\nTablet PO Q8H (every 8 hours) for 13 days.\nDisp:*40 Tablet(s)* Refills:*0*\n\n\nDischarge Disposition:\nHome With Service\n\nFacility:\n[**Hospital1 1474**] VNA\n\nDischarge Diagnosis:\nSplenic artery hemorrhage\nAcute blood loss anemia\nSecondary diagnosis: Diabetes\n\n\nDischarge Condition:\nHemodynamically stable, tolerating a regular diet, pain\nadequately controlled.\n\n\nDischarge Instructions:\nReturn to the Emergency room if you develop any fevers, chills,\nheadache, dizziness, very hih or low blood sugars, shortness of\nbreath, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea and/or any\nother symptoms that are concerning to you.\n\nTake all of your medications as prescribed and be sure to\ncomplete your entire antibiotic course as instructed.\n\n\nFollowup Instructions:\nFollow up next week with Dr. [**Last Name (STitle) **], call [**Telephone/Fax (1) 2359**] for an\nappointment. You will also need to be scheduled for an\noutpatient CTA (CT scan to look at your arteries). Please inform\nthe office when you call to make your appointment to schedule\nthis test.\n\nFollow up with [**Last Name (un) **] Diabetes Asian American Clinic in the next\nweek, call [**Telephone/Fax (1) 58905**] for an appointment.\n\nFollow up in [**Hospital 3595**] clinic for your left hand/arm in 1 week,\ncall [**Telephone/Fax (1) 5343**].\n\nFollow up with your primary care doctor in [**12-6**] weeks, you will\nneed to call for an appointment.\n\n\n\nCompleted by:[**2153-11-21**]"],