by McCoy

## Abstract
We performed sentiment analysis on 2,484 hospital discharge notes. The primary measures of sentiment captured intensity of subjective positive or negative sentiment expressed in the discharge notes. 
Discharge note sentiment was then examined for association with risk for readmission. Discharge notes for individuals with greater medical comorbidity were modestly but significantly lower in positive sentiment among both psychiatric and general medical cohorts (p<0.001 in each). Greater positive sentiment at discharge was associated with significantly decreased risk of hospital readmission in each cohort (~12% decrease per standard deviation above the mean). Automated characterization of discharge notes in terms of sentiment identifies differences between sociodemographic groups, as well as in clinical outcomes, and is not explained by differences in diagnosis. Clinician sentiment merits investigation to understand why and how it reflects or impacts outcomes.

## Intro

The use of large-scale electronic health record data has enabled powerful, efficient investigation of clinically important questions ranging from pharmacovigilance to risk stratification [[1](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref001)]. However, coded data such as diagnostic and billing codes provide a limited window into clinical status. Electronic health records often capture provider decision making and analysis as unstructured data, such as narrative notes. These data are appealing in their richness but have been difficult to quantify, particularly with the efficiency required for health-system-wide analysis.

Even brief fragments of text may reflect the feelings of the author about a given topic. That is, some words or groups of words reflect more positive ('excellent') or negative (‘horrible’) valence. 

**We hypothesized that sentiment could be measured in narrative notes written by clinicians, and that these data might provide insight into patient characteristics not explicitly captured by claims codes or diagnoses, as well as clinician impressions of, or attitudes toward, individual patients. In particular, if these data, not typically captured at a clinical population level, were shown to have predictive validity, it could prompt greater effort to utilize narrative notes to augment coded data sources.**

We therefore applied a sentiment scoring algorithm, also known as opinion mining, to quantify sentiment in a corpus of narrative hospital admission and discharge notes. We examined differences between patient subgroups, as well as the association between sentiment measures and clinical outcomes as a test of predictive utility for this approach.

### Cohort and outcome derivation

We used Informatics for Integrating Biology and the Bedside, or i2b2, server software (i2b2 v1.6, Boston,MA,USA)[[8](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref008)] in order to access and parse data from the electronic health records of a large Boston-based hospital (an informatics framework deployed at more than 100 academic health centers internationally for managing human health data). The present analysis focused on sociodemographic features, billing codes, and narrative admission and discharge notes written by staff physicians.

The primary outcome measure of interest in the psychiatric cohort was time to psychiatric or all-cause hospital readmission, determined by examining the period following index discharge to identify subsequent admissions. For the larger, general medical cohort, in addition to time to readmission, time to all-cause mortality was also examined. (The small number of events in the psychiatric cohort precluded analysis of mortality in this group.)

### Development and application of natural language processing tool
A curated lexicon of subjectivity and sentimentality is used to score words occurring within a sample document. As we are unaware of a “gold standard” corpus of medical notes rated for sentiment, we used Pattern (v2.6), an open source implementation of lexical opinion mining developed at the University of Antwerp [[17](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref017)–[19](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref019)].  In brief, this method depends on matching words and phrases to an included lexicon of nearly 3,000 words annotated for polarity (negativity vs positivity rated -1 to 1), subjectivity (not subjective to subjective rated 0 to 1), intensity modifier (1/2 to 2x) and negation (reverses polarity)[[20](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref020)]. 
The score for a given document is the mean of all recognized words after accounting for preceding negation (inverting polarity) and multiplying by the intensity modifier for relevant adjectives. This approach has demonstrated accuracy of 75% versus a gold standard corpus of movie reviews[[21](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref021), [22](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref022)]; to our knowledge, its performance in a corpus of clinical notes has not been previously examined, and no manually-classified corpus of clinical notes is available. Consistent with the work of Mitchell[[3](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref003)], no effort is made to tie these scores to particular topics. Instead, we estimate the aggregate positivity and negativity, and the subjectivity versus objectivity, for a given narrative note.

### Analysis

As primary measures for analysis, we selected the product of two estimated characteristics—that is, to what extent are terms subjective (1) versus objective (0) and positive (+1) or negative (-1)? For each narrative note, this yields 2 scores: subjective positivity, in a continuous range from 0–1, and subjective negativity, in a continuous range from 0–1. Thus, an entirely neutral note would be scored a 0; a note comprised entirely of subjective positive statements would be scored a 1. These two features (positivity and negativity) were examined separately, rather than treated as a continuum, to allow for the possibility that some notes might have high levels of both—i.e., more sentiment-expressing words of both polarities.

Associations between the product of positive or negative sentiment and subjectivity, and sociodemographic or clinical features, were examined using mixed effects models, in order to account for presence of multiple clustered observations (i.e., multiple hospitalizations) per patient.

Effects of sentiment scores were examined using Cox proportional hazards models, adjusted for sociodemographic and clinical features, after confirming that the proportional hazards assumption was met for each independent variable by formal test and by using visual inspection of Schoenfeld residuals.

## Discussion

We measured sentiment in more than 17,000 patients with 23,000 hospital discharges across two clinical cohorts. In general, notes for individuals with a greater burden of medical illness included less sentiment, both positive and negative. Interestingly, among psychiatric patients, public insurance was associated with less positive sentiment, while notes for Hispanic patients included greater levels of both positive and negative sentiment. In both cohorts, positive sentiment predicted reduced readmission hazard, with ~12% decrease per standard deviation above the mean sentiment value in the cohort; in the general medical cohort, we also observed association with reduced mortality—for one standard deviation increase in positive sentiment, mortality hazard was reduced by ~20%. (While outcome prediction would undoubtedly be improved with more complex models incorporating individual diagnoses and medications, the intention in the present study was simply to demonstrate the informativeness of a novel derived data type, while controlling for standard sociodemographic variables and an aggregate measure of clinical severity, the Charlson comorbidity index.)

These results are particularly notable given that the sentiment-scoring system was not derived with any particular eye towards clinical documentation or medical vocabulary. As such, a key question is what such sentiment scores actually reflect; we employ the term 'sentiment' throughout simply for consistency with the descriptions of this approach in the machine learning literature.

In part, these measures may aggregate symptoms or diagnoses reflecting negative valence—depression, anxiety, and pain, for example. In this context, they represent simply an efficient general-purpose algorithm for aggregating clinical features not fully explained by ICD9 codes alone, consistent with dimensional models of psychopathology[[23](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0136341#pone.0136341.ref023)]. On the other hand, the positive sentiment domain is less likely to be explainable solely in terms of symptoms or disorders.